# odin-project-calculator
An in-browser calculator to showcase what I have learned in HTML, CSS, and JS so far.

The HTML structure of the page is simple and relies on javascript to generate the buttons on the calculator.

CSS grid and flex-box are used together to attain the desired layout and of the page. 

When the script is executed, all the buttons are created and added to the DOM tree. Then each button is correctly labeled, and event listeners are added to each button. Button clicks result in relevant function calls, depending on the text of the button. Numbers, decimal points, negative signs, and operators are stored in a string until the user chooses to enter the formula for evaluation. There are restrictions on user input that will cause an alert; A formula cannot start with an operator (unless it is a negative sign and part of a number) or a decimal. A formula cannot contain numbers that have multiple decimal points in them. A formula cannot contain multiple decimal points or operators in a row (unless a negative sign follows an operator). The user input cannot exceed 15 characters. Lastly, a formula ending in a decimal point or an operator cannot be passed to the enter function. In all cases a relevant message will inform the user of the problem with their input. If the user needs to modify their input, they can delete characters from the string or clear it entirely.

When the enter button is pressed, a tokenizer function is used to parse user input from the string to an array of tokens. Then, the tokenized array is converted to reverse polish notation using a simplified form of the shunting-yard algorithm. Finally, the reverse polish notation is evaluated from left to right until no more operators remain in the tokenized array. This yields a single answer that is converted to a string and displayed to the user.

This project taught me a variety of soft and hard software development skills. Most notably, I learned the importance of planning in the development process. My original idea was not planned out as well as I wish it was now, and that cost me time and caused me some frustration. I also learned about data structures such as stacks and queues, the shunting-yard algorithm, and input data handling. The way that I first wanted to solve this problem did not include a way to tokenize the user input, which was causing me to have a lot of problems with the way functions were interacting with the input string. I originally needed a way to store the current formula, and the current number being acted on for sign changes. This made things overly complicated because any time I wanted to add to the string or delete things from it, there were multiple variables to modify and assign to the changing values. Ultimately I caved and decided to research better ways to solve the problem, which led to the implementation of the tokenizing function and the shunting-yard algorithm to streamline the process.  
